BATCH 037 — GATE-RED ADVERSARIAL VERIFY, group "close-offbatch-door" (family red-close-offbatch-door).
Verifier run 2026-09-11, after the builder's report at work/.b037-report-red-close-offbatch-door.txt.

⚠ NO LINE ON THIS PAGE IS A SETTLE LINE OR A TEACH LINE. This group credited no comparer. Every id
below is kept off the lines carrying the words the closer's citation scan matches, and the whole page
was scanned against that regex before it was written (0 hits). This group's disposition is one branch
in the closer, its guard, and the manifest.

HEADLINE — the round's own instrument now runs clean, and ONE driver stage stands between here and
three green gates. `node scripts/wg-batch-close.mjs --batch 037` (my run, this tree):
    125 record(s), 144 confirmed / 0 refuted / 0 askOwner
    verdicts: OWNER-QUEUED 112, FIXED 12, MATCHES 1   (added 125)
    residual: confirmed 144, flaggedResidues 44, offBatch 12
    REFUSED: none.   work/wg-batch-037-parity.json + -residual.json: "would be created".
  The builder's tree still printed THREE refusals when I picked it up; see ITEM 8.


ITEM 1+2+3 — ROOT CAUSE, the off-batch verdict router
  DONE. scripts/wg-batch-close.mjs:240-262 (in f1da70a) routes a confirmed finding whose rec() lands
  outside work/wg-batch-037.json out of the verdict derivation and into residual.offBatch, and REFUSES
  it only when nothing in the batch cites it. The WHY comment quotes the gate's own PARITY sentence
  ("125 record(s) in this batch have an encoding on their side"), which is the right authority: I read
  scripts/wg-batch-gate.mjs:422-455 and that text is verbatim from its fail() at :427.

  RE-MEASURED, not accepted:
    · work/wg-batch-037.json holds exactly 125 ids and NONE of android, wild-lights,
      armigers-protection, flexible-spellcaster, soul-well, mask-of-the-mantis-major, zealot-staff,
      screech-shooter-greater/-major, wyrm-spindle-greater/-major is among them. swashbucklers-speed IS.
    · `node scripts/wg-show.mjs "Armiger's Protection" --raw` and `"Zealot Staff" --raw` both print
      "No ability_block row ... they do not carry this record at all"; `"Soul Well" --raw` prints
      "(no operations — they carry the record but encode nothing mechanical)".
    · Every one of the twelve carries evidence "owner ruling, 2026-09-10 desk pass" in
      work/.b037-read.json, i.e. the print-read lane riding in the WG-comparison read file.
  BLAST RADIUS re-measured myself, not taken from the report: I replayed rec() over
  work/.b030..036-read.json against each batch's own id list — 33/29/29/78/42/55/32 confirmed findings,
  ZERO off-batch in all seven. The new branch is a no-op for every earlier batch, so the regate cannot
  move.

ITEM 4 — the citation check
  DONE, and it is now TWELVE of twelve cited, not eleven. The closer prints one off-batch line per
  finding with its citation; eleven are row-spec citations from families data-rows-2/3/4/6 and the
  instruments-1 spec note, exactly as predicted. The twelfth (the flexible-spellcaster collection
  shape) picked up a citation of its own while I was verifying, from the engine group's staged test
  file — the weak tier doing its designed job. The guard was NOT weakened: I re-ran the uncited case
  in the group's own test and it still exits 1 and names the id.

ITEM 5 — print, read by me against the mirror
  DONE. All three doc ids the round quoted check out verbatim at C:/wonderers guide/aon-2e-archive/data:
    · feat-8814 — "you receive a non-magical suit of Hellknight armor of a type you become trained in
      (Hellknight breastplate, Hellknight half plate, or Hellknight plate)" → ONE suit, chosen.
    · feat-7707 — "living creatures within the same area die from the dying condition at dying 5 rather
      than dying 4", scoped to "For the next minute" → a toggle, not a passive.
    · equipment-2263 — "Activate Free Action (concentrate) Trigger You hit with a Strike using the
      staff" with NO Frequency line on the activation (the only Frequency on the page is none; the
      drained clause is the daily-preparation one).
  Nothing here is a decision this round makes, and this group authored no row over any of it.

ITEM 6 — VERIFY RED 15 (parity-residual-check)
  DONE, resolves with nothing extra, and scripts/parity-residual-check.mjs is untouched (git reports it
  clean). I ran it: "13 record(s) have no verdict and are NOT waiting on a ruling", all thirteen in
  batch 037 — and the closer now derives a verdict for every one of them (I replicated its citations()
  read-only over all thirteen: twelve FIXED off a row spec, one MATCHES). The check goes green the
  moment the artefact is on disk. The 13th, swashbucklers-speed, now derives FIXED off an 8-row spec
  and no longer refuses.

ITEM 7 — the unstaged guard (verify-gaps [108] REOPENED, family gap-instruments-6)
  DONE, but the measurement in the report was already STALE when it was written, and I am saying so
  rather than passing it on. The manifest entry exists and names scripts/wg-diff.mjs,
  test/batch037-gap-instruments-6.test.ts, test/batch035-closer.test.ts and
  work/.b037-report-gap-instruments-6.txt. The defect it was written for was gone before it landed:
  `git show --stat f1da70a` lists test/batch035-closer.test.ts (+31/-x) INSIDE that commit, so it was
  never left in the working tree. The entry is harmless belt-and-braces and I left it alone.
  The report's other half I re-checked at source and it holds: scripts/wg-batch-commit.mjs:96 carries
  the KEEP glob ^work/\.b037-report-.*\.txt$, so -gap-instruments-4.txt and -5.txt are staged whether or
  not any stage[] names them. No manifest edit is owed for those two.

ITEM 8 — manifest ownership — FIXED-BY-ME (then absorbed by a concurrent write)
  NOT-DONE as I received it; DONE now. The builder's entry named work/.b037-rows-engine-lanes.json /
  family engine-lanes, taken from the round's shorthand. No such file existed: that group's spec, test
  and report are all under its real family name red-owner-ruled-engine-lanes. The closer hard-refuses a
  manifest naming a missing spec, so the builder's tree printed three refusals, and the other two were
  downstream of the first (the engine group's two findings had no spec to be cited from):
      manifest names work/.b037-rows-engine-lanes.json (family engine-lanes) and it does not exist
      confirmed finding <the flexible-spellcaster collection-shape one> ... nothing in this batch cites it
      uncited NEW verdict — swashbucklers-speed
  I repointed the entry at the file on disk and re-ran: all three refusals gone, 125 verdicts derived.
  At 15:07 that group rewrote work/.b037-specs.json itself (replace-by-family) and folded my note into
  its own entry, so the manifest now holds ONE engine entry, 26 in total, no duplicate family, and
  every `file` exists — verified by re-reading it after their write. I left their version standing.
  ⚠ The round told this group the manifest "belongs to this group and NO other". It does not: another
  group wrote it mid-round. Any future manifest write must re-read at the moment of the write.

ITEM 9 — the test
  DONE. test/wg-batch-close.test.ts, describe "an off-batch confirmed finding (android) is routed to
  residual.offBatch, not refused", two cases. I read both in full: they spawn the REAL closer as a node
  child over a --root fixture (the same harness as the file's other twelve cases), and they hold the two
  halves apart properly — the cited case asserts parity.records is exactly the three batch records
  (so the off-batch id is proved NOT to become a verdict) and that residual.offBatch carries the row
  citation; the uncited case asserts exit 1, the id in the output, and NO parity file on disk.
  Citation form checks out against rule (1): the marker sits within the 6 lines above each changed
  it()/expect(), the finding it names is in confirmed[] of work/.b037-read.json with verdict CONFIRMED,
  and the record half of its id appears in the describe title.
  No "// mutation-proof" marker is owed and none is missing — rule (3) is about a new comparer credit
  or an lane-tool teach, and this is the closer's verdict router. Nothing in this group's change adds a
  key to any comparer registry.
  RUN BY ME: `node scripts/vt.mjs run test/wg-batch-close.test.ts` → 14 passed (14).
             `node scripts/test-flip-audit.mjs --batch 037` → clean, 50 test file(s), every flip cited.
             `npx tsc --noEmit` → exit 0.

ITEM 10 — the committed-batch guard (the builder's own find)
  DONE, and it is load-bearing: without it the other nine items clear nothing, because f1da70a closed
  the batch with neither artefact in it and the old guard made them unwritable forever. The branch is
  right and its WHY comment says so. Checked myself:
    · I enumerated batches 025-037 on disk: every batch 025-036 has BOTH artefacts, only 037 has
      neither. So today the relaxed branch changes behaviour for exactly one batch.
    · The plan-E acceptance (batch 029, artefacts present) still refuses and still returns both files
      byte-identical — it is case 13 of the 14 that passed.
  And I pushed past the report to the question it did not ask: is the artefact the gate wants actually
  going to be ACCEPTED once written? I read both gate checks rather than assuming.
    · RESIDUAL (wg-batch-gate.mjs:367-389) demands examined >= 125 and every confirmed entry marked
      fixed. The closer writes examined: ids.length (125) and fixed: true on all 144 (:390, :392); the
      44 unfixed residues live under flaggedResidues, which that gate does not read. Passes.
    · PARITY (:422-455) demands a verdict for every record with theirOps, and that each OWNER-QUEUED one
      resolve through queuedFor(). The closer refuses to write OWNER-QUEUED without an exact desk hit,
      and the gate's resolver is a superset of that (it also matches record#aspect keys), so all 112
      resolve. Passes.
  So gate reds 1 and 2 and verify red 15 clear together on the next close, with nothing further owed.


WHAT IS STILL RED ON DISK, stated plainly
  work/wg-batch-037-parity.json and work/wg-batch-037-residual.json DO NOT EXIST yet, so gate reds 1, 2
  and verify red 15 are still red as of this file. Every refusal that kept them unwritten is gone and
  the dry run says "would be created" for both — but writing them is `--stage close`, which is the
  DRIVER's stage and not a thing this round may do halfway: scripts/wg-batch-run.mjs:1013-1098 runs the
  went-quiet diff against the baseline flags and regenerates src/data/trust-ledger.json in the same
  stage, and a closer run by hand produces the artefact while silently skipping both. That is why I did
  not run --write. It is CROSS-FILE GAPS 1, and it is one command.


DATA STILL NEEDED
  (none — this group authored no overlay row and owes none. Its spec file is deliberately empty and
  contributes no citation, which I confirmed: work/.b037-rows-red-close-offbatch-door.json has
  findings: [] and the closer's citation pass draws nothing from it.)

CROSS-FILE GAPS
  1. DRIVER ACTION, the one thing left: run `node scripts/wg-batch-run.mjs --batch 037 --stage close`.
     It is refusal-free now (verified by dry run in this tree) and it is what creates the two artefacts
     gate reds 1+2 and verify red 15 are about. Nothing else in this round can clear them.
  2. scripts/wg-batch-close.mjs — the relaxed guard decides "a batch committed without its artefacts"
     with existsSync on the WORKING TREE, while the claim it encodes is about HISTORY. Deleting a
     committed batch's parity/residual locally would therefore let --write re-derive over what history
     holds. Not live today (025-036 all have both files on disk) and the damage would be a visible git
     diff, so I did not widen the code to a `git show HEAD:` probe: that half cannot be tested without a
     git-repo fixture, and this round may not run git write commands. Whoever owns the git-fixture
     decision gets both this and the builder's own untested-branch gap in one go.
  3. work/.b037-rows-engine-lanes.json, work/.b037-report-engine-lanes.txt and
     test/batch037-engine-lanes.test.ts now exist only as placeholders under the round's shorthand name
     (the first is deliberately empty and points at the real spec). The manifest no longer has an entry
     whose `file` is that empty spec, so nothing cites them; they are staged by the engine entry and
     would enter history as three near-empty files. The driver should decide whether it wants them.
  4. work/.b037-specs.json is written by at least two groups concurrently (mine at 15:05, the engine
     group's replace-by-family at 15:07, which absorbed my entry). It survived this time because that
     group re-read before writing. The round's "belongs to this group and NO other" is not true of this
     batch, and a later group that appends without re-reading will silently drop entries.
